Data Exploration
=====================
- Data exploration makes heavy use of statistics to experiment and get answers to questions that managers might not have thought of previously. This approach leverages predictive modeling techniques to predict user behavior based on their previous business transactions and preferences. Cluster analysis can be used to segment customers into groups based on similar attributes that may not have been on analysts’ radar screens. Once these groups are discovered, managers can perform targeted actions such as customizing marketing messages, upgrading service, and cross/up-selling to each unique group. Another popular use case is to predict what group of users may “drop out.” Armed with this information, managers can proactively devise strategies to retain this user segment and lower the churn rate.
- With an increased emphasis on digital, inbound marketing, organizations want to attract prospects to their website with engaging, robust, and targeted content. 
- Running experiments, organizations can test two webs sites, each containing different content such as white papers and demos, events such as webinars, and landing pages and lead form designs. 
- The results of these experiments can help predict which combination of these variables twill lead to the highest conversion rate of site visitors to qualified leads, and qualified leads to customers.
- The large retailer Target used data mining techniques to predict the buying habits of clusters of customers that were going through a major life event.2  Predicting customers who are going through big life changes such as pregnancy, marriage, and divorce, is important to retailers since these customers are most likely to be flexible and change their buying habits, making them ideal targets for advertisers. 
- Target was able to identify roughly 25 products, such as unscented lotion and vitamin supplements, that when analyzed together, helped determine a “pregnancy prediction” score. Target then sent promotions focused on baby-related products to women based on their pregnancy prediction score. The result: sales of Target’s Mom and Baby products sharply increased soon after the launch their new advertising campaigns.
- The rise in robust statistical/analytical techniques can lead to fast, direct results for data exploring organizations. 
- The big challenge is the lack of qualified statisticians with expertise in the latest business analytical techniques. Another challenge is around data privacy/policy issues. Organizations need to think through the most effective way to use the results of their data mining techniques to improve the customer experience, and not make customers feel that retailers are “spying” on them. For example, Target had to adjust how it communicated this promotion to women who were most likely pregnant, once it had learned that the initial advertising had made some of them upset.² As a result, Target made sure to include advertisements that were not baby-related so the baby ads would look random.
