Social Analytics
Social analytics measure the vast amount of non-transactional data that exists today. Much of this data exist on social media platforms, such as conversations and reviews on Facebook, Twitter, and Yelp. Social analytics measure three broad categories: awareness, engagement, and word-of-mouth or reach.3 Awareness looks at the exposure or mentions of social content and often involves metrics such as the number of video views and the number of followers or community members. Engagement measures the level of activity and interaction among platform members, such as the frequency of user-generated content. More recently, mobile applications and platforms such as Foursquare provide organizations with location-based data that can measure brand awareness and engagement, including the number and frequency of check-ins, with active users rewarded with badges. Finally, reach measures the extent to which content is disseminated to other users across social platforms. Reach can be measured with variables such as the number of retweets on Twitter and shared likes on Facebook.
Social metrics are critical since they help inform managers of the success of their external and internal social digital campaigns and activities. For example, marketing campaigns involving contests and promotions on Facebook can be assessed through the number of consumer ideas submitted and the community comments related to those ideas. If the metrics indicate poor results, managers can pivot and make changes. For example, low Facebook engagement may mean more interesting and interactive content needs to be created.        
With recent advancements in social measurement techniques, we can now calculate one’s “digital footprint” in the social media world.  Companies like PeerIndex and Klout can measure a digital user’s social influence. A Klout score ranges from 1 to 100, based on their algorithm involving number of followers, re-tweets, the influence of the followers themselves, and other variables. Marketers are using social metrics to identify “influencers,” those well-followed individuals who are discussing their particular brand and can serve as a brand advocate. Using Klout’s services, Virgin America identified 120 individuals with high Klout scores and offered them a free flight to promote their new Toronto route.4 These individuals were not obligated to write about their experience. But, between these 120 individuals and another 144 engaged influencers, the campaign resulted in a total of 4,600 tweets, 7.4M impressions, and coverage in top news outlets. Thus, the campaign created a high brand awareness of the new airline route.
Social analyzers need a clear understanding of what they are measuring. For example, a viral video that has been viewed 10M times is a good indicator of high awareness, but it is not necessarily a good measure of engagement and interaction. Furthermore, social metrics consist of intermediate, non-financial measures. To determine a business impact, analysts often need to collect web traffic and business metrics, in addition to social metrics, and then look for correlations. In the case of viral videos, analysts need to determine if, after viewing the YouTube videos, there is traffic to the company web site followed by eventual product purchases.    
